Hey guys, Chef Mark here.
Today I'm gonna make for you
a crab and avocado berry salad.
Beautiful berries,
gorgeous in season right now,
so let's take advantage
of those.
Well, let's use our
Jumbo Lump crab meat.
It's the biggest,
most meaty
luscious pieces of
the crab you can get.
Our guests are really
gonna appreciate that.
I need two of these,
so just grab another one
and we'll be on our way.
I got the base
for my salad here.
This is gonna be organic
family pack greens.
It's the right size.
It's got a lot of variety
of flavors and textures
for the base of the salad.
Now for the berry portion
of the salad.
Got gorgeous berries here.
I'm gonna start out
with these here,
the raspberries.
I'm gonna actually use
these for the vinaigrette.
Cut some in half so
they soften a little bit,
and then we'll garnish
with some others.
So let's grab some
blueberries,
and these gorgeous big
blackberries.
Some of these may not even make it
to the salad before I go there.
Let's put it together.
Okay, so our crab
and avocado salad
with some gorgeous
berries here.
Everything's ready
in front of us.
There's not much
to put this together,
but first thing we're
gonna do is we're gonna have
a container of cider vinegar here
which I've cooked
with a little bit of sugar
just to dissolve it a little bit,
and I've stored that
in the fridgerator
just to cool it down.
So that's already
done here.
So let's put the rest
of it together.
So I have some raspberries,
halved raspberries.
This is our vinaigrette
we're making.
So we've got our
olive oil.
Just do our tarragon here.
And our shallots.
So let's do some black pepper,
make a nice vinaigrette here.
Just toss it together,
doesn't have to be
emulsified or anything.
And a little bit
of a salt, good.
Let's do our vinegar mixture.
So all this is is just
tossing this up.
It's a broken vinaigrette.
Like I said, as this sits,
those raspberries will soften,
actually create a little
bit even color to the vinaigrette,
which makes a nice
addition, so...
The next thing we're
gonna do is we're gonna
put together our crab mixture, so...
We'll take our lump
crab here,
be gentle with this stuff.
They picked it,
were very particular
about how they picked it.
Keeps up
nice, big pieces.
Let's do some lemon zest.
Our chives chopped up,
and our mayonnaise.
Like I said, be gentle with it.
We're gonna toss this
all together
with some salt and pepper.
Try not to break those
things up,
'cause when your
guests get this
they wanna see those nice,
big pieces of Jumbo Lump crab.
The choice pieces.
So a little bit of black pepper.
And toss this together.
Again, just to barely
fold this through.
That mixture's done.
And all we gotta do is put
our salad together.
So, let's do an avocado here.
So, when you grab an avocado,
you wanna make sure
that it gives a little bit,
a little bit soft,
not too soft though.
There's a little piece
of the stem in there,
pluck that out.
And then all I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna put my knife inside here,
go right to where
the pit is,
and you're gonna rotate
this around all the way around
until you meet the other side,
and hopefully you get it
just right on camera.
So then the next strat
we're gonna do
an X on the top.
So criss cross this
and then come all the way
around to the other side,
and once you get there,
take this, twist it,
and you're gonna get
four pieces here.
This right here can just
barely be tapped,
and then we're gonna
twist this off and it comes off.
Push this away
from the blade,
and that pit falls away.
When you peel your avocado,
it peels very nicely
from the tip of the avocado.
And then what I want
you to do
is you're gonna take these
and just lay 'em down.
And you can do it
a couple different ways,
you can make it slices
like this,
or you can keep
one end together
and then fan it out.
The idea is we're gonna try
to keep some of these
fanned together so that when
we place it on
it looks nice on the top.
I'm gonna put one of
these dishes together.
We could put the whole
thing together,
but let's just do one
plated.
So let's take some
field mix, spring mix,
whatever's in season
is good.
Our vinaigrette.
Those berries have
softened a little bit.
You're gonna notice a little
bit of red tinge
to your shallots in there.
Don't worry about
the salt and black pepper to this,
which I normally would do,
it's in the dressing already.
It's going to plate.
Tuck it in a little bit.
And then each one of these
gets topped with some
of your crab mix.
Right on the top.
Gorgeous crab.
And then let's do
our avocados.
Let's just fan this out
ever so slightly.
All right?
And then some fresh berries.
Today I've got some
blueberries,
we'll go over the top.
And then we're gonna do
some blackberries,
these are gorgeous,
these are huge.
And then some raspberries here.
Right over the top,
just a little bit more
of the dressing here
just over the top of those
berries we just sat down.
This is a great refreshing salad.
Take advantage
of this one for sure.